
Sign in
Get started
Estimate your monthly mortgage payments
Home price$
300,000
Down payment$
60,000
%
20
Length of loan
30 years
Interest rate%
6.500
ZIP code
60462

Monthly payment

$1,517/mo




Monthly payment breakdown
$1,517/mo

100%
Principal & interest

$1,517

Property taxes
$
0
Homeowners insurance
$
0
HOA fees
$
0

Utilities

$0/mo
Simple steps to get pre-approved
1
Share a few details
Tell us about your income, credit, and home goals—it takes as little as 3 minutes and won’t affect your credit score.

2
See your homebuying budget
In minutes, we’ll show you exactly how much you can get pre-approved for—so you know your price range before you shop.

3
Get your pre-approval letter
Download your letter instantly and start touring homes with confidence (and a stronger offer in hand).

Check your homebuying power
See what I qualify for
...in as little as 3 minutes –

no credit impact

Mortgage Calculator with PMI & Taxes
A mortgage calculator for home loans can show your true monthly housing costs before you commit to a home loan.


Home shoppers balance a lot of numbers: home prices, loan sizes, down payments, interest rates, property tax rates, mortgage insurance premiums, and so on.


A mortgage payment calculator shows how these variables come together to shape a home's monthly payment.


These tools are invaluable for comparing loan scenarios — and Better makes it easy by doing the heavy lifting for you. With access to an extensive network of investors, Better essentially “shops the market” on your behalf to find competitive rates, saving you the time and stress of lender-hunting. In fact, The Wall Street Journal named Better the Best Lender for Affordability in 2024.

How to find your payments with a mortgage calculator for home loans


What you can do with this home payment calculator


What does a mortgage payment include?


Mortgage payment formula


How to lower monthly mortgage payments


Types of mortgage loans


1400+ customers
provide us 5 stars in

05/12/2025

Better offered the best rate
Better Mortgage offered the best rate. Other companies finally agreed to match the Better rate, but I stuck Better Mortgage since they offered it first. I would definitely recommend Better.

See in Trustpilot →
05/12/2025

Better offered the best rate
Better Mortgage offered the best rate. Other companies finally agreed to match the Better rate, but I stuck Better Mortgage since they offered it first. I would definitely recommend Better.

See in Trustpilot →
03/16/2025

Just got the keys to our new home!
I am very busy at work and don’t have a lot of time to mess around and these guys have simplified the process and made it much more efficient than other providers. We were approved in a matter of days. The Better team were very punctual and always on top of things. They also gave us better rates than anyone else we priced. We had a great experience working with them.

See in Trustpilot →
02/15/2025

Amazing experience
I went with Better because it literally saved me close to $7k from the other lender I was with. They finished my loan in 8 days total. Not business days, just 8 days. Thanks Better!

See in Trustpilot →
06/08/2025

Excellent, fast and reliable mortgage
Love the fast processing and decision. Highly recommend!

See in Trustpilot →
05/28/2025

Never had as positive an experience as I did with Better
I’ve purchased a few homes over my lifetime and refinanced about four times as well. In all those experiences, I never had as positive an experience as I did with Better. The process was easy, the team was always available to answer questions, and they laid out everything I needed in a simple, step-by-step format. I loved my experience with them and highly recommend them.

See in Trustpilot →

1/5

Get your custom quote
Get a personalized offer
...in as little as 3 minutes –

no credit impact

Expert opinions


Should I wait for a better market?
If you’re buying a home, focus on what works for your budget and lifestyle right now instead of waiting for the ‘perfect’ market. There are programs that can make things more affordable, and if rates drop later, you can always refinance.

River Robertson
River Robertson
Loan Consultant

NMLS #1698258

Is it true rates will drop?
We’ve been hearing that for 3+ years, and many buyers have missed out on their dream home waiting for that ‘magic moment.’ Nobody has a crystal ball—if the home and payment fit your budget, it’s the right time.

David Schultz
David Schultz
Loan Consultant

NMLS #1952787

How should buyers handle scary market headlines?
Often, the media headlines are inaccurate and sensationalized. Connect with a licensed loan officer who can help you sort through the noise and give you personalized advice based on your unique situation.

Libby Owens
Libby Owens
Senior Loan Consultant

NMLS #2089666

Compare rates
ZIP code
60462
Cash-out amount
$0
Property Value
$550,000
Current Mortgage balance
$225,000
Home Equity Loans
Purchase
Cash-out Refinance
Term	Rate	APR	Points (cost)
30-yr fixed	5.750%	5.967%	2.32 ($5,216)
30-yr fixed FHA	5.375%	5.761%	2.49 ($5,595)
20-yr fixed	5.500%	5.788%	2.32 ($5,227)
15-yr fixed	5.375%	5.718%	2.20 ($4,955)
10-yr fixed	5.375%	5.866%	2.21 ($4,977)
10/6m ARM	6.000%	6.422%	2.08 ($4,673)
7/6m ARM	5.750%	6.374%	2.13 ($4,790)
5/6m ARM	5.750%	6.378%	2.16 ($4,865)
Historical mortgage rate trends
Loan type
All (average)
Error: Failed to fetch

Purchase
Refinance
Mortgage Calculator FAQs

How do I calculate my mortgage payment?

Are mortgages compounded monthly?

What do closing costs typically cost?

What is the 2% rule for mortgage payoff?
More resources: Rates & Calculators
Affordability calculator
See how much home you can comfortably afford before you start shopping.

Calculate my budget ->

Rent vs. buy calculator
Wondering if it’s time to buy? Compare the real costs side by side.

Compare my costs ->

HELOC payment calculator
Know what getting cash from your home could cost before you decide.

Estimate my payments ->

Mortgage rates
Stay on top of rates so you can lock in the right one at the right time.

See today's rates ->

HELOC rates
Compare the latest HELOC rates and understand your options.

See today's rates ->

Refinance rates
Check current refi rates to see if lowering your payment is within reach.

See today's rates ->

Related articles

1/3

How much house can I afford with an $80k salary? Smart guide
How much house can I afford with an $80k salary? Learn which factors affect your mortgage options, and discover tips that make homebuying more affordable.

Read now
What house can I afford on $50k a year?
Wondering what house you can afford on a $50k salary? Explore how income, debt, and down payment affect your budget and how much you can afford.

Read now
How much house can I afford with a 70k salary? Tips and more
Wondering how much house I can afford with a 70k salary? Learn budgeting tips, loan options, and key factors that impact home affordability on a $70K income.

Read now
How much house can I afford with a $120k salary? Key factors
How much house can I afford with a $120k salary? Learn key affordability factors, home-buying scenarios, and strategies to boost buying power.

Read now
How much house can I afford with a $150k salary? Smart guide
How much house can I afford with a $150k salary? Explore price-range estimates, common mortgage options, and tips for saving money in our guide.

Read now
How much down payment for a house do you need?
How much down payment for a house do you need? Explore typical down payment percentages, minimum requirements, and how to find the right amount for you.

Read now
How to afford a $1 million home: Key factors and tips
Discover how to afford a million-dollar home with these insightful tips. Learn income requirements and additional costs to secure your dream home.

Read now
How to flip a house: Complete step-by-step guide with tips
Learn how to flip a house profitably. Discover the steps, pros and cons, common mistakes, and expert tips to succeed in your first house flipping project.

Read now
The FYI on the ROI of a future rental property
Need the tools to find the right rental property for you? It all comes down to how to think about your return on investment.

Read now
More questions you might have
How do I qualify for the Better Real Estate discount?
Is Better Mortgage a direct lender?
What will my closing costs be, and what should I expect?
What is title vesting in real estate? Title vesting meaning
Check your homebuying power
See what I qualify for
...in as little as 3 minutes –

no credit impact

Mortgage rates by state
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming
Mortgage Calculator is for estimation purposes only. Real payments will vary and may include (but are not limited to) the following fees: home insurance, HOA payments, taxes, regional fees, etc. All calculations assume eligibility for the selected loan. This is not a commitment to lend.

Better is a family of companies serving all your homeownership needs.

better mortgage homepage
We can’t wait to say “Welcome home.” Apply 100% online, with expert customer support.

better real estate page
Connect with a local Better Real Estate Partner Agent to find out all the ways you can save.

better cover page
Shop, bundle, and save on insurance coverage for home, auto, life, and more.

better inspect page
Get free repair estimates, 24-hour turnarounds on reports, and rest easy with our 100-day inspection guarantee.

better inspect page
Get transparent rates when you shop for title insurance all in one convenient place.

Resources
Home affordability calculator
Mortgage calculator
Rent vs buy calculator
HELOC payment calculator
HELOC vs cash-out refinance calculator
Buy a home
Sell a home
Get home inspection
Company
About Us
Careers
Media
Partner With Us
Learning center
FAQs
Investor Relations
Contact Us
hello@better.com
415-523-8837
FAQ
Glossary
Legal
NMLS Consumer Access
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Disclosures & Licensing
Affiliated Business
Browser Disclaimer
© 2026 Better Home & Finance Holding Company and/or its affiliates. Better is a family of companies. Better Mortgage Corporation provides home loans; Better Real Estate, LLC and Better Real Estate California Inc License # 02164055 provides real estate services; Better Cover, LLC sells insurance products; and Better Settlement Services provides title insurance services; and Better Inspect, LLC provides home inspection services. All rights reserved.

Better BMC operates under the name Better Mortgage Corporation in New York.

Home lending products offered by Better Mortgage Corporation. Better Mortgage Corporation is a direct lender. NMLS #330511. 1 World Trade Center, 80th Floor, New York, NY 10007. Loans made or arranged pursuant to a California Finance Lenders Law License. Not available in all states. Equal Housing Lender. NMLS Consumer Access

Better Real Estate, LLC dba BRE, Better Home Services, BRE Services, LLC and Better Real Estate, and operating in the State of California through its wholly owned subsidiary Better Real Estate California Inc., is a licensed real estate brokerage and maintains its corporate headquarters at 325-41 Chestnut Street, Suite 826, Philadelphia, PA 19106. Here is a full listing of Better Real Estate, LLC’s license numbers. Better Real Estate, LLC provides access to real estate brokerage services via its nationwide network of partner brokerages and real estate agents (“Better Real Estate Partner Agents”). Equal Housing Opportunity. All rights reserved.

New York State Housing and Anti-Discrimination Notice

New York Standard Operating Procedures

Texas Real Estate Commission: Information About Brokerage Services | Consumer Protection Notice

Better Settlement Services, LLC. 325-41 Chestnut Street, Suite 803, Philadelphia, PA 19106.

Homeowners insurance policies are offered through Better Cover, LLC, a Pennsylvania Resident Producer Agency. License #881593. 325-41 Chestnut Street, Suite 807, Philadelphia, PA 19106.

Insurance quotes and policies are offered through Better Cover, LLC. A Pennsylvania Resident Producer Agency. License #881593. Here is a full listing of Better Cover, LLC’s license numbers.

Better Inspect, LLC maintains its corporate headquarters at 325-41 Chestnut Street, Suite 846, Philadelphia, PA 19106.

Better Mortgage Corporation, Better Real Estate, LLC, Better Settlement Services, LLC, Better Cover, LLC, Better Connect, and Better Inspect, LLC are separate operating subsidiaries of Better Home & Finance Holding Company. Each company is a separate legal entity operated and managed through its own management and governance structure as required by its state of incorporation, and applicable and legal and regulatory requirements. Products not available in all states.

Any unauthorized use of any proprietary or intellectual property is strictly prohibited. All trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos, icons, and domain names are proprietary to Better Home & Finance Holding Company. Better Home & Finance Holding Company trademarks are federally registered with the U. S. Patent and Trademark Office. Better Cover is a registered trademark with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and is owned by Better Cover, LLC.